---
title: Xapo Bank
description: A USD and BTC online private bank based in Gibraltar for bitcoiners.
Tags:
  - finance
  - banking
  - bitcoin
  - fiat
  - xapo-bank
  - kyc
---
## Introduction to Xapo Private Bank  
[Xapo Bank](https://xapobank.com) is an online **private bank** targeting bitcoiners and individuals in emerging markets.  
- It is based and regulated in **Gibraltar**.
- Opened and managed **remotely** from the **iOS** and **Android** apps.  
- It provides a **USD** bank account and a **BTC** custodial wallet.  
- It comes with a **Mastercard virtual** and a **physical metal debit card**.
- It offers **interests** on both balances.  
- It provides a **dedicated account manager** you can refer to for any consultation.  
- The account maintinace costs **150 USD per year**, not charged for the first 3 months.  

## Xapo requirements and verifications  
### Citizenship
To open the account you need a **passport**, as national identity card is not accepted.  
Passport from mostly any country is accepted **except US passports and sanctioned countries passports**.  
### Residency
A proof of residency is needed, in the form of a **utility bill, bank statement or national government issued ID**. In my case a Paraguayan driving license showing my residency address was accepted. **US and EU residents are not elegible** for the account opening. The bank targets mostly individuals in emerging markets looking for a offshore USD denominated bank account.  
### Tax id
They also ask for a tax id. The info provided must not be verified and the request is optional. You don't need to have one to open the account. Without it, you can still open the account.  
### Registration  
The registration procedure is fully automated. It starts on the website and the verification is app based and approved in afew minutes once all the documents are uploaded. In my case, I had to repeat it 3 times because the picture of the paasport hologram was not clearly visible. 
### Minimum balance 
There is a suggested minimum balance of 10.000 USD (in fiat and/or bitcoins) but there is **no minimum deposit** requirement.  

## Xapo deposit guarantee
As mentioned before, Xapo Bank is a **fully regulated bank in Gibraltar**, which means it's part of the **Gibraltar Deposit Guarantee Scheme**.  
Only the USD balance is covered by the scheme, up to the equivalent of 100.000 EUR. The bitcoin balance is not covered.  
The law claims that the refund is processed within 10 business days, without the need to fill a request. They access the bank database and they refund the clients.
The coverage can exceed the 100.000 EUR balance in some specific circustances referred as [Temporary High Balances](https://gdgb.gi/TemporaryHighBalances.html) by the law.  

## Xapo deposits interests
They offer interests on both the balances.  
They are both paid out in bitcoins (showing in sats unit on the mobile app) and paid out daily.  
The **USD** balance get **4.1%** annual interest.  
The **BTC** balance get a **1%** annaul interest.  

## Xapo supported currencies and transfer methods
### SWIFT circuit and USDC
Until March 17 2023, Xapo Bank was part of the SWIFT circuit, with the US based Signature Bank as the corresponded bank. Due to the Signature Bank troubles, Xapo was forced to remove it and they suddenly lost their connection to the SWIFT system. Being a bank involved with cryptocurrencies operations
Due to this, they are now revamping the USDC operations. USDC deposits are converted as soon as they are received, at the fixed exchange rate of 1:1. However wehave recently seen that, when USDV depegged from the USD, they suspended the deposits. I'm not very entusiast of what they consider a solution to the SWIFT problem. I consider crypto a scam more than fiat, and USDC one of the worst stablecoin on the market.
### Receive SEPA bank transfer in EUR
What I find very odd is that the iOS app, under the USD bank details to receive payments, doesn't show the personal IBAN that is instead shown on the pdf generated bank statement.  
For instance, if you choose to receive a transfer from let's say Portugal (or any other country member of the SEPA circuit, the app shows Xapo Bank Limited as the the recipient name and provides a reference number that the sender must include in the payment order to make sure that it gets credit to your account.  
It's actually possible to receive it directly under your name providing the IBAN showing on the statement.  
On top of this, the details shown on the app refers to the SWIFT circuit (slower and more expensive than the SEPA circuit) with the US based Signature Bank as the corresponded bank, even if Xapo communicated to his customers that the correspondent bank is not available anymore starting from March 17 2023.  
But, as previously said, is possible to receive under the SEPA circuit.  
What I'm still waiting to clarify with my account manager is if [this](https://customersupport.xapo.com/en_us/how-do-multi-currency-transactions-work-in-the-xapo-app-Hk78CIjM5) article is still valid. Meaning if the SEPA can be also sent in EUR or CHF and automatically converted to USD by Xapo before being credited. I will update the artice as soon as I recieve a response. 

## Xapo debit cards
The debit cards transactions are eligible for **1.1% cashback** paid in shatoshis and credited on the fifth of each month.  
They offer three types of debit card:
### Xapo vitual debit card
Is the one I'm using at the moment.  
It's a Mastercard that can be emitted as soon as the bank account is verified.  
### Xapo stardard physical card
It has the same benefit of the virtual card.
### Xapo metal physical card
They say it comes with a wide range of high-value benefits, but they are not specified.
As soon as I will have one, I will list the benefits here.
Both the stardard physical card and the metal physical card can be shipped only to your account verified residencial address.  
Becuase I'm traveling, I have not ordered it yet.

## Xapo exchange rates
The bank does not publicly list their exchange rates, but from my experience, the are as follow.    
### Xapo bitcoin exchange rate
When you convert bitcoin to us dollars on the app, or when you make card purchases that are debited on your btc balance, the conversion rate is approximately **1% lower than Kraken** listed exchange rate.  
I can't comment on the exchange rate when buying bitcoins with us dollars on the app because I never tested that option.  
### Xapo foreign currency exchange rate
Becuase the account is in USD only, expenses in a foreign currency are converted to US dollars.  
This applies to card purchases and bank transfers in GBP and EUR.
The applied exchange rate is the same as the own shown by Google, that is the Wholesale exchange rate or **Interbank exchange rate**.

### Exchange rates practical example  
- for a purchase for 363.60 EUR with the card, I was charged 392.57 USD, that is an exchange rate of 1.0796 USD/EUR. At the same moment, the exchange rate listed on google was 1.08 USD/EUR.  
- to cover the 392.57 USD payment, I was charged 0.01464198 BTC, that is an exchange rate of 26811.26 BTC/USD. At the same time, Kraken was listing the exchange rate at 26987 BTC/USD.  
I will add another example, with more exotic currency like PYG, as soon as I have one.  

## Xapo support
### Xapo dedicated account manager
As stated before, to differentiate from the other neo banks and promote them as a private banking service, they provide a **dedicated account manager** you can contact by **email** Monday to Friday.  
### Xapo chat
There is also an in app support **chat** with assistant available Monday to Friday as well.  
### Xapo support working hours
As the legacy banks, Xapo does not offer assistance during weekends and holidays. 
### Xapo physical meetings
The is also the option for a **in-person meeting** with yout account mananger at the bank office in Gibraltar. The meeting can be booked on the app. 
I have been in contact on both channels and the assistance received has been always accurate and fast.   

## Xapo bitcoin wallet
### Xapo custodial wallet
The Xapo bitcoin wallet is a **custodial wallet**, that should not be used to hold bitcoins, but just to cover the expenses with the card. The 1% interest is to low compared to the risks involved with a custodial solution.  
### Xapo on-chain wallet
It supports on-chain deposits and withdraws.   
The very bad news is that the bitcoin **deposit address is unique**, meaning that you always deposit to the same address, instead of providing a new unused address at every deposit, as expected by the good practices. This is very bad for your privacy. I asked the bank to implement addresses roatation but I doubt it will be implemented unless requested by many clients.  
Deposits are credited with theree confirmations on the timechain.  
### Xapo Lighning Network wallet
The wallet also comes with **outgoing Lighning Network payments** up to the equivalent of 100 USD per payment. The service is offered in partnership with Lightspark. I never used it so I can't comment much about it. Unfortunately it's not possible to deposit using the LN. 
### Xapo Bitcoin interes 
As wrote before, it comes with a **1% annual interest** rate.  

## Xapo legal structure  
The companies behind the Xapo Bank website and services are formally three.  
The two trading companies are **registered and incorporated in Gibraltar** and regulated by the **Gibraltar Financial Services Commission**, so in my understanding they should be both protected by the Gibraltar Deposit Guarantee Scheme. 
#### Xapo Bank Limited
My understanding is that this entity is responsible for all the fiat related operations.  
#### Xapo VASP Limited
My understanding is that this one is responsible for the cryptocurrency related operations.  VASP should stand for Virtual Assets Service Provider.
#### Xapo Holdings Limited
Is the not trading company, **incorporated in the Cayman Islands** and involved in the Management of Companies and Enterprises sector, owned by Wenceslao Casares, Xapo founder. My obvious speculation is that this company owns the other two on behalf of the Xapo founder and possibly other partners. 

## Xapo history
Xapo was founded by Wenceslao Casares, an Argentinian entrepreneur based in the US.
It was original localted in Palo Alto, California. In May 2015 they moved to Zuc, Switzerland.They finally landed to Gibraltar in July 2017.
#### Xapo bitcoin mobile wallet
Xapo brand was launched in 2014 as a bitcoin custodial wallet.  
I never used it, but checking his now migrated twitter account it was already using SAT as the display unit atthat time. 
#### Xapo Vault
Xapo Vault was an cold storage for bitcoin private keys, initially located in a dismissed Swiss military [bunker](https://youtu.be/dz7Oj8uId9U) and later expanded to multiple locations. The business model was based on a 0.12% annual fee on the deposited bitcoin balance.  At sime pont,they were storing 800.000 bitcoins of their institutional clients.
It was launched in 2014 and [acquired](https://www.coinbase.com/blog/coinbase-custody-acquires-xapos-institutional-business-becoming-the-worlds) by Coinbase Custody in 2019.  
#### Xapo Visa debit card
In 2014 they also launched a debit card.  
The card was emitted by Wave Crest Holdings Limited on the Visa circuit. The same company was providing debit cards to many different brands. 
All the cards emitted by Wave Crest were terminated on January 2018 under Visa request, without any consequence for Xapo's users bitcoin deposits.   
I remember rumors of that time saying that the ban was not related to bitcoin but to the fact that Wave Crest did not implement enough KYC procedures and that they were providing cards to non EU residents too, when the license was only for EU residents.   
#### Xapo Bank 
In 2017 they obtained the Gibraltar e-money license.  
In July 2018 they obtained the New York much discussed BitLicense. They renunced it in 2022 when they choose to leave the US market.
In 2021 they became the first in the world to blend traditional banking with bitcoin, offering access to USD and BTC in one place.  
They mention The Xapo Bitcoin Reserve, that should cover bitcoin lost due to hacking or other failures, but is not clearto me in what this consists.



