---
title: Xapo Bank
description: A USD and BTC online private bank based in Gibraltar for bitcoiners.
Tags:
  - finance
  - xapo-bank
  - bitcoin
---
## Introduction to Xapo Bank features  
[Xapo Bank](https://xapobank.com) it's a fully regulated Gibraltar based private bank targeting bitcoiners.  
They provide a USD bank account and a BTC custodial wallet that supports on-chain deposits and withdraws and Lightning Network outgoing only transactions. 
It also comes with a virtual and a physical metal debit card. Bitcoins deposited in the account can be instantly converted to USD when the card is used for purchase. 
There is a suggested minimum deposit of 10.000 USD (in fiat and/or bitcoins) but there is no minimal deposit requirement.  
Claiming to be a online private bank, it provides a personal assistant you can refer to for any consultation. A physical meeting at their office with the personal assistant can be booked using the app.  

## Requirements and verification to open a Xapo Bank account  
- To open the account you need a **passport**, as national identity card is not accepted.  
- Passport from mostly any country is accepted **except US passports and sanctioned countries passports**. 
- A proof of residency is needed, in the form of a **utility bill, bank statement or national government issued ID**. In my case a Paraguayan driving license showing my residency address was accepted. 

## xapo Bank features
- As mentioned before, Xapo Bank is a fully regulated bank in Gibraltar, which means it's part of the **Gibraltar Deposit Guarantee Scheme**: customers funds are protected by law up to 100.000 EUR.
- At the time of writing, it offers a 4.1% annual interest on USD balance and a 1% interest rate on BTC balance.  
- Debit card transactions are eligible for 1.1% cashback paid in shatoshis.  


## Receive SEPA bank transfer in EUR
What I find very odd is that the iOS app, under the USD bank details to receive payments, doesn't show the personal IBAN that is instead shown on the pdf generated bank statement.  
For instance, if you choose to receive a transfer from let's say Portugal (or any other country member of the SEPA circuit, the app shows Xapo Bank Limited as the the recipient name and provides a reference number that the sender must include in the payment order to make sure that it gets credit to your account.  
It's actually possible to receive it directly under your name providing the IBAN showing on the statement.  
On top of this, the details shown on the app refers to the SWIFT circuit (slower and more expensive than the SEPA circuit) with the US based Signature Bank as the corresponded bank, even if Xapo communicated to his customers that the correspondent bank is not available anymore starting from March 17 2023.  
But, as previously said, is possible to receive under the SEPA circuit.  
What I'm still waiting to clarify with Salvador, my personal bank assistance is if [this](https://customersupport.xapo.com/en_us/how-do-multi-currency-transactions-work-in-the-xapo-app-Hk78CIjM5) article is still valid. Meaning if the SEPA can be also sent in EUR or CHF and automatically converted to USD by Xapo before being credited.

